# Study Permit — Documents Required
**Source:** https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/study-canada/study-permit/get-documents.html
**Scraped:** 2026-04-03


# Get the right documents

To apply for a study permit, there are some documents you need to include. In some cases, you may not need all of them. Make sure you know what applies to your situation.

1. 1 Get your letter of acceptance Always required Your school will give you a letter of acceptance. Upload this to your online application. Post-secondary students Your school will be asked to make sure your letter of acceptance (LOA) is valid. If your school does not respond by the deadline, we’ll return your application and refund your processing fee. Confirm with your school that they will validate your LOA before resubmitting your application. Only attach your LOA in the LOA-specific space when uploading documents for your online application. If you attach other documents in this space, you’re giving your consent to disclose these additional documents to your school. All other required documents should be attached in the corresponding spaces in your online application. Exceptions If you’re the family member of someone who has a study permit or work permit application that’s been approved in writing before you come to Canada, you don’t need a letter of acceptance.
2. 2 Apply for a provincial or territorial attestation letter Needed in most cases Get a provincial or territorial attestation letter (PAL/TAL) from your school. In most cases, you need to accept your offer and pay your tuition fees, either in part or in full, to get your PAL/TAL. If you’re studying in Quebec , you need a Quebec Acceptance Certificate ( Certificat d’acceptation du Québec [CAQ] ).
3. 3 Show proof of identity Always required To show proof of identity, you (and each family member who comes with you) must have a copy of a valid passport or travel document Upload a copy of the information page of your passport when you apply online. If you’re approved , you must send us your original passport. 2 recent passport size photos The name and date of birth of the person must be written on the back of each photo. For citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States (U.S.) If you’re a citizen of the U.S., you have options for what you can show as proof of identity . If you’re a lawful permanent resident of the U.S., you must travel with a valid green card ( or equivalent official proof of status in the U.S. ) and a valid passport from their country of nationality (or an equivalent document).
4. 4 Show proof of funds Always required To support yourself and any family members coming with you, you must show proof of funds .
5. 5 Write a letter of explanation Recommended You must explain why you want to study in Canada, and that you understand your responsibilities as an international student in Canada.
6. 6 Get a medical exam Check if needed You may need a medical exam if any of these situations apply to you: You plan to stay in Canada for more than 6 months. You recently spent time in certain countries. You plan to work in certain jobs where public health must be protected. Check if you need a medical exam .
7. 7 Get a police certificate Check if needed In some cases, we may ask you for a police certificate . If you think you might need one, you should apply for one as early as possible .
8. 8 Proof of care (for minor children in Canada) Check if needed Children under the age of 17 who are not coming to Canada with a parent or legal guardian must have an appointed custodian. Find out what you need to submit for children under the age of 17 .
9. 9 Check for other documents you might need based on what country you’re applying from Check if needed There may be other documents to submit that are specific to your local visa office. To get your local visa office instructions: Go to the How to apply page Select “Outside Canada” Select “Apply online” Select your country or territory from the list. If you aren’t currently in your home country, you may have to prove your immigration status in the country you apply from. If the government that issued your passport or travel document needs you to have a re-entry permit, you must get one before you apply for a Canadian visa. You may also need other documents. Extra documents are needed for Venezuelan passport holders If the printed expiry date has passed and you’re applying for a visitor visa, study permit, work permit or to extend your stay as a temporary resident in Canada, follow these steps: Add 5 years to the printed expiry date shown on your passport, and enter it in the “Expiry date” field of the application form. Include a letter of explanation with your application stating: “I am a Venezuelan national with a Venezuelan passport which has been extended for 5 years.” Warning: If your passport is still expired after adding 5 years to the printed expiry date, your passport is considered expired. You’re not eligible to submit an application with that passport.
